# `COVID19`

This folder originally contained the Korean Coronavirus Corpus.

The corpus itself cannot be shared. To get the access to the corpus, contact me (his.nigel at gmail dot com) and we will consider privately sharing the corpus.

Here we present the data format, so that you can validate our scripts.

## Directories 

- Each directory should contain the corpus files. Each line should represent an article. Each file should represent a day. All files as tsv (other extensions will be ignored by the scripts). See the sample files for fortmat. All files should be saved as **UTF-8 without BOM** with UNIX line breaking (`LF`, not `CRLF`). Even for the days with no articles, the scripts will expect there to be an empty tsv with that date as the file name. All files with no heading; headings in the sample files are added for demonstration purpose only.
- Each file should be named with the date in "%Y.%M.%D" format. e.g., "2022.06.06.tsv" for June 6, 2022 articles.
- cleaned: we used web crawling for building our corpus. Our crawler will grab url, title, and contents. From here, we "cleaned" unnecessary text like the reporter's email address and the titles of the "related" articles presensted by the news provider by embedding them in the article.  This version is saved in 'cleaned.' Texts in here will have natural Korean laguage spacing.
- tagged: **TL;DR** Texts in this directory (except for the press name) is formatted as FORM/TAG and spaced by morphemes determined by PoS tagger Kiwi.
	- On the result of the 'cleaned', we pre-perform PoS tagging with Kiwi tagger for the entire corpus to reduce the execution time and make the PoS tagging result consistent across runs. After the PoS tagging, each morphemes will be formatted as: FORM/TAG. Thus, the unit of spacing here is not as-it but the morphemes. 
	- e.g., the text `북중교역의 최대 거점인 중국 랴오닝성 단둥시가...` ("The City of Dandong in Liaoning Province of China, which is the biggest base point of China-DPRK trades, ...") will be formatted as `북/NNG 중/NNB 교역/NNG 의/JKG 최대/NNG 거점/NNG 이/VCP ᆫ/ETM 중국/NNP 랴오닝/NNP 성/XSN 단둥시/NNP 가/JKS ...` according to Kiwi tagger. Here, `북중교역의` ("of China-DPRK trade(s)") consists of several morephemes. "북중교역" can be considered as a free morpheme with the meaning of "China-DPRK trade(s)". "의", on the other hand, is a bound morpheme, often categorized as a 'josa' in study of Korean languages, and thus having been  assigned to the tag "JKG". Note that "북중교역" can still be analyzed as "북" (DPRK, *lit.* the North), "중" (China. *lit.* the center, but "중cwung" is the first character of the name of China in Korean, which is "중국cwung.kwuk.), and "교역" (trade/trades. Note that Korean language does not require morphologically overt plural forms for nominals, putting the "plural marker" of "-tul" an optional bound morpheme). 
	- Determining of the wordship is a hard and controversial task. We follow the result of Kiwi parser as-is in terms of morpheme division. Since Kiwi divided "북중교역" into "북", "중", and "교역", we followed this division and save it as "북/NNG 중/NNB 교역/NNG". Considering its training schemes, the tagger is expected to divide a morepheme further until the statistically significant morpheme from the training corpus remains. 
	- Note that for better results, we added additional tokens for newly coined words like "코로나" (*kholona*, corona) to prevent the tagger from dividing such morephems, which are unlikely to have appeared in the training corpora, further. However, since such addition only adjust the weight of the tokens instead of keeping that together with additional rules, this does not guarantee such words to be undivided. Such process was not applied for press names -- they appear as-is. All the spacings in the press names are spacings of their own.
- The scripts will generate '-wkly' versions of the directory. They contain corpus data for cleaned and tagged where each file is for a week rather than a day. Each filename will represent the Monday of each week. There is no seperator between articles. In other words, daily articles are joined without any symbol but a single line feed in between.
